 Date: Thu, 18 Jan 1995 17:45:00 EST
 From: Christine M Gianone <cmg@columbia.edu>
 Subject: MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 Released

   This is to announce MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 for the IBM PC, PS/2, and
   compatibles with DOS or Windows. The new MS-DOS Kermit release was
   prepared, as always, by Professor Joe R. Doupnik of Utah State University.

Quick Start

   MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 ZIP file.
           Click to retrieve the disk-image ZIP file. Unzip with "pkunzip -d
           msvibm.zip" as it has many subdirectories. Read the top-level
           READ.ME file for installation instructions.

Highlights

   File transfer recovery allows interrupted binary-mode transfers to be
   continued from the point of failure. Can be used with C-Kermit 5A(190) on
   UNIX, VMS, OS/2, AOS/VS, Stratus VOS, and the Commodore Amiga, and with
   the forthcoming IBM Mainframe 4.3.1.

   ANSI and Wyse terminal emulation add two popular terminal types to
   Kermit's repertoire. ANSI emulation, not quite the same as VT100
   emulation, is used to access most BBSs, and Wyse emulation is required by
   certain applications and services.

   Workarounds for buggy UART simulators on Pentium motherboards and other
   new processors allows MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 to work on these systems, where
   earlier versions might not have. Also: support for the Hayes ESP serial
   communications board in 16550A mode; support for Fossil drivers; dialing
   scripts for more and more new kinds of modems (many of them with X and/or
   Z in their names -- all the popular brands!).

   Numerous additions to the script programming language, including a full
   selection of built-in functions compatible with C-Kermit's: \fsubstring(),
   etc.

   Complete Hebrew and Cyrillic support packages are now included, and Kanji
   terminal emulation is now available for DOS/V on IBM and compatible PCs.

   Network, printer, keyboard, font, and other support support utilities are
   now included in the basic package.

   New smaller versions are available for those who don't need (or can't fit)
   all the features of the full version.

   Here is a more detailed list of the changes in version 3.14:

     * ANSI terminal emulation
     * Wyse-50 terminal emulation
     * Data General DASHER and DEC VT terminal emulation improvements
     * Kanji character-set translation during terminal emulation
     * HP-Roman8 terminal character-set
     * Control over timeslicing method in Windows, DesqView, OS/2, NT
     * Control over automatic video-mode switching
     * Selectable fore- and background colors for underline simulation
     * Additional scan codes for Alt/Ctrl/Shift - SpaceBar/EscKey
       combinations
     * DEC User Definable Keys (UDKs) now supported
     * Revised printer support for better interoperation with Novell CAPTURE
     * Additional control over TCP/IP and TELNET protocol features
     * Debugging display of TELNET options negotiation
     * Networking support for Telebit PPP
     * TCP/IP fixes, speedups, and refinements
     * Multiple TCP/IP sessions to the same host now allowed
     * Support for Artisoft Int14 redirector
     * Support for Meridian Technology SuperLAT network connections
     * Workarounds for buggy SMC FDC37C665 UART simulator on Pentium
       motherboards
     * Support for Hayes ESP serial communications board in 16550A mode
     * Support for Fossil Drivers
     * SET SPEED 28800
     * User control over treatment of carrier signal on serial connections
     * Binary-mode file transfer recovery
     * Ability to send partial files manually
     * Control of run-length encoding
     * Improved client/server operation
     * Prompt string value now evaluated each time prompt is issued
     * ASK/ASKQ responses now taken literally
     * New APC command sends APC strings
     * Incoming APC strings ignored by default for safety
     * Revised CONNECT-mode status line for additional information
     * Separate CONNECT-mode help and one-character command menus
     * New script programming commands
     * Improved consistency of backslash-quoting in commands
     * New built-in string, file, and numeric functions
     * Additional built-in variables
     * Revised command line handling of substitution variables
     * Transaction log of file transfers now records detailed rejection
       reason if based on file attributes
     * Available also in special reduced forms for limited memory, e.g. for
       use on 256K systems, or as an external protocol on BBSs, etc.

   The organization of the files and the manner in which we are distributing
   them as been improved. We are now distributing Kermit on a high-density
   1.44MB 3.5-inch diskette, which is pretty universally accepted these days,
   and on the network in a ZIP file that mirrors this diskette. This allows
   us to organize and name the files more sensibly and to include material
   that previously would not fit. Here is a brief synopsis:

   READ.ME
           Brief overview of what's on the disk (in the ZIP file)

   KERMIT.EXE
           Full-function MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 (about 230K)

   KERMITE.EXE
           A smaller version (about 160K - no networks, no graphics)

   KERLITE.EXE
           A very small version (105K - scripting and file transfer only)

   MSR*314.PCH
           Patch files (currently empty)

   MSKERMIT.INI
           Standard initialization file

   MSCUSTOM.INI
           Sample (note: -> SAMPLE <-) customization file

   DIALUPS.TXT
           Sample dialing directory

   KERMIT.UPD
           Documentation for new features

   KERMIT.HLP
           Brief synopsis of commands

   KERMIT.BWR
           "Beware" file - hints and tips, etc

   COLS80.BAT
           Too hard to explain in one line, see READ.ME...

   COLS132.BAT
           Ditto

   KERMITE.EXE can be used on PCs with small memories, e.g. on old XTs, where
   the full-featured version might not fit. It can also be used if you simply
   do not need Kermit's networking or graphics terminal emulation
   capabilities, in which case you can run bigger programs "under" Kermit in
   the extra free memory.

   Of particular interest to BBS proprietors, KERLITE.EXE is an "extra-lite"
   version which is like the "lite" version, but also eliminates the terminal
   emulator (and the CONNECT command) entirely, but still includes the full
   script programming language, weighing in at only 105K - perfect for use as
   an external protocol and script execution engine.

   With Kermit Lite plus Fossil and ESP support, there is every reason to
   upgrade the Kermit support in BBSs to the most advanced and fastest Kermit
   protocol implementation available for DOS. For further information, see
   the new BBS OPERATORS GUIDE section in the KERMIT.UPD file. (Vendors of
   BBS software who want to include Kermit with their product should contact
   us for further information.)

   Now come the subdirectories. Each one has a READ.ME file that explains its
   contents.

   PERFORM
           An article on Kermit file transfer protocol performance.

   MODEMS
           Dialing scripts for 19 different modems, including most popular
           high-speed, error-correcting, data-compressing models.

   NETWORKS
           Everything you need for MS-DOS Kermit TCP/IP networking except the
           specific driver for your network board, including all the famous
           "shims" that convert between one "standard" and another, such as
           the latest version of Dan Lanciani's ODIPKT, plus Joe Doupnik's
           DIS_PKT9, plus the WINPKT shim to be used when Windows is
           involved, and a SLIP driver in case you don't have a network
           board, all of which have been verified to work with this version
           of Kermit and other popular software. Plus a new overview document
           to help you make sense of this ever-more-confusing tangle.

   KEYBOARD
           Complete key mappings for DEC VT220/320 and DG DASHER emulation.
           The "Gold key" TSR, for making Num Lock work like the F1 key.
           LK250 drivers (for DEC keyboards that plug into IBM PCs). A little
           TSR for swapping the Caps Lock and Ctrl keys and Esc and tilde.

   UTILS
           General utilities, like the famous XSEND program for transferring
           entire directory trees, plus various printer items. (Did you know
           Kermit could transfer directory trees intact?)

   WINDOWS
           Windows Program Information File for Kermit.

   PCFONTS
           This is something new -- public domain fonts (code pages) for your
           PC that are easy to load dynamically -- no more endless and
           fruitless wandering through the corridors of IBM or Microsoft to
           track down a Hebrew or Cyrillic code page; no more editing
           AUTOEXEC.BAT (DISPLAY.SYS, NLSFUNC blah blah, MODE CON CP PREPARE
           blah blah, MODE CON CP SELECT blah blah) and then rebooting to
           install a new code page, no more limit to four "prepared" code
           pages. Now you can just "loadfont" whatever code page you want,
           any time you want. This directory includes code pages for Western
           and Eastern European languages (CP437, 850, and 852), Icelandic
           (861), Hebrew (862) and Cyrillic (863), plus utilities to load and
           display them. Our thanks to Joseph (Yossi) Gil at The Technion in
           Haifa, Isreal, for this wonderful collection (and this is only a
           small part of it -- look in kermit.columbia.edu:pcfonts for
           more, and maybe find even more (and newer) at the Technion).

   CYRILLIC
           Also new. Key mapping and screen translation setups to be used
           with the Cyrillic font, plus Cyrillic character-set tables. Use
           MS-DOS Kermit for Russian terminal emulation (and Ukranian,
           Bielorussian, etc), using any of the popular host encodings: ISO,
           KOI-8, or Short KOI. Now you can read those Russian newsgroups!
           Thanks to Konstantin Vinogradov of ICSTI in Moscow, Russia, for
           the .INI files.

   HEBREW
           Also new. The files in this directory give MS-DOS Kermit full
           Hebrew terminal emulation capability, including the standard (i.e.
           WordPerfect :-) key map for entering Hebrew letters on the PC
           keyboard, complete with automatic English/Hebrew switching
           directed by the host, everything you get on a real Hebrew-model
           VT420 terminal. Thus the standard MS-DOS Kermit distribution now
           replaces the various "Hebrewized" offshoots of MS-DOS Kermit that
           have been in circulation for some years, e.g. for use with the
           ALEPH bibliographic software. You even get a PostScript picture of
           the key map.

   ROMAN
           Character-set tables for Roman-based character sets used by MS-DOS
           Kermit.

How to Get It

   The ZIP file is available via anonymous ftp from Columbia University as
   kermit/archives/msvibm.zip. Transfer it in binary mode, unzip it using
   the "-d" switch to preserve the directory structure, read the top-level
   READ.ME file, and go from there.

   By the way, do not unzip the ZIP file over your old Kermit directory, or
   you will lose your old MSCUSTOM.INI file and your old dialing directory!
   Either make a new directory for MS-DOS Kermit 3.14, or copy your
   MSCUSTOM.INI and DIALUPS.TXT files to a safe place before wiping out your
   old one, for example:

   cd \kermit
   copy mscustom.ini mscustom.old
   copy dialups.txt dialups.old
   pkunzip -d msvibm.zip
   copy mscustom.old mscustom.ini
   copy dialups.old dialups.txt

   Our deepest thanks, as always, to Joe Doupnik for bringing another new
   version of MS-DOS Kermit to us.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 / Columbia University / kermit@kermitproject.org
