           The Kermit Project
           New York City USA
		   kermit@kermitproject.org
           …since 1981

MS-DOS Kermit for DOS and Windows 3.x

     Effective 1 July 2011, MS-DOS Kermit should be considered Open Source
     software under the Revised 3-Clause BSD License, even though the
     software itself and associated files may carry the old copyright and
     licensing information.

     MS-DOS Kermit is not designed or intended for use in Windows 95, 98, ME,
     NT, 2000, XP, Vista, Windows 7 or later, or IBM OS/2. The recommended,
     supported, native, and (still) current Kermit software for these
     operating systems is Kermit 95.

   MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 is a compact and efficient communications software
   package for IBM PCs and compatibles with MS-DOS or PC-DOS offering a wide
   range of faithful text and graphics terminal emulations, an
   astonishing variety of serial and network communication methods, a vast
   array of international character-set conversions, exceptionally flexible
   and powerful key mapping, a powerful, easy-to-use script programming
   language, and advanced Kermit file transfer.

   MS-DOS Kermit supports communication through serial ports, a wide variety
   of local networking methods (like NetBIOS, BAPI, DECnet, NASI, SuperLAT,
   TELAPI, and TES, plus it has its own built-in TCP/IP stack and Telnet
   client. Modem dialing is accomplished with modem-specific dialing
   scripts

   It includes faithful emulation of the DEC VT52,100,102,220,320 terminals;
   ANSI, Heath-19, Wyse50, various Data General DASHER models, and the
   Tektronix 4010 Graphics terminal, as well as DG terminals in graphics
   mode.

   MS-DOS Kermit runs directly under DOS 2.0 and later and under Microsoft
   Windows 3.11 or earlier. MS-DOS Kermit is not supported in Windows 95
   and later.

                           MS-DOS Kermit 3.14 is packaged on diskette with
                           the book Using MS-DOS Kermit by Christine M.
                           Gianone, Digital Press (1992)

  MS-DOS Kermit Version 3.14

   MS-DOS Kermit 3.14, 21 May 1995, is the most recent complete distribution.

  MS-DOS Kermit Version 3.15

   MS-DOS Kermit 3.15, 15 September 1997, issued as an update to version 3.14.

  MS-DOS Kermit Version 3.16

   MS-DOS Kermit 3.16 is an even later release with a lot of improvements in
   the script language to make it almost the same as that of C-Kermit and
   Kermit 95. You can install this one on top of 3.14 or 3.15.

   Also see:

   ftp://ftp.kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/a/msbaaa.txt
           A guide to "bootstrapping" MS-Kermit when you don't have it on a
           diskette and your PC is not on a network.

   ftp://ftp.kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/a/tcomtxt.asm
           TCOMTXT, a tiny bootstrapping program that can be used to load
           programs onto a DOS PC through the serial port starting with only
           a diskette with the minimum system files.

  History

   MS-DOS Kermit was one of the original Kermit programs, first released in
   1982, shortly after the IBM PC was announced, following just behind the
   Kermit programs for the DECSYSTEM-20, CP/M-80, and the IBM mainframe.
   It was written in response to overwhelming demand to make this PC, which
   was very soon to dominate the universe, communicate with other kinds of
   computers, including IBM's own (a service that not even IBM could offer at
   the time).

   The prototype was done by Bill Catchings of the Kermit project in a single
   EMACS editing session (the early pre-GNU TECO-based EMACS) using
   macros to convert his CP/M-80 Kermit from 8080 assembly language to Intel
   8088 assembler. "PC Kermit", as it was called at first, was turned over to
   Daphne Tzoar who polished it sufficiently for general use and maintained
   it for some time, and later to Jeff Damens who produced several major new
   releases through version 2.28. There were separate releases for the IBM
   PC, the DEC Rainbow, the HP-150, the Heath-Zenith 100, the Victor
   9000, the NEC APC, and many other of the DOS machines of mid-1980s that
   were not code- or disk-compatible with each other.

   In 1985 MS-DOS Kermit was taken over by Professor Joe R. Doupnik of Utah
   State University, who added more improvements than can be listed in a
   short web page, but most notable among them:

     * A script programming language compatible with that of C-Kermit.
     * VT100, 220, and 320 terminal emulation; "ANSI" emulation for BBSs;
       Wyse50, Data General DASHER (under contract with DG), and Tektronix
       graphics terminal emulation, making MS-DOS Kermit the only Kermit
       program ever to emulate any graphics terminal, and in fact it emulated
       two since the DASHER was also a graphics terminal.

     * Sliding Windows transport protocol for file transfers, which in itself
       required hardware-specific memory management support for acquiring the
       necessary buffer space on the earlier PC generations.

     * Conversion of international character sets in both terminal emulation
       and file transfer, including Russian and Hebrew (with right-to-left
       screen-writing support).

     * Most notably of all, a full TCP/IP network stack built in to MS-DOS
       Kermit itself, supporting DNS, BOOTP, and DHCP connections via
       Ethernet, SLIP, or PPP, and over that the ARPANET TELNET protocol.
       Plus support for many other long-forgotten PC networking methods:
       3COM, Novell, NetBIOS, LAT, etc. Among these were IBM's LANACS, a
       product that included MS-DOS Kermit under license to the Kermit
       Project, and AT&T STARLAN, which also included a licensed copy of
       MS-DOS Kermit.

   All this in a program that fit on a floppy disk, together with its
   documentation and supporting files (dialing scripts, keymaps, fonts for
   Hebrew and Cyrillic, utilities, packet drivers, and so on). For about 15
   years, MS-DOS Kermit was mass-market software, found on practically every
   desktop PC on earth. New releases were big news in the trade press. The
   manual, Using MS-DOS Kermit, by Christine M. Gianone of the Kermit
   Project, is a masterpiece of user-friendly technical writing, and went
   through two best-selling editions, was also published in German and in
   French, and was also the basis for a Japanese edition. MS-DOS Kermit was
   so popular in the USSR and Eastern Europe (because of its ability to do
   Cyrillic terminal emulation) that an International Kermit Conference
   in Moscow in 1989 was attended by representatives of 35 countries.

   MS-DOS Kermit's popularity waned as DOS was phased out in favor of
   Window 95 and its successors, where MS-DOS Kermit could not be fully
   functional. However, to this day, MS-DOS Kermit remains one of
   Kermit's "Greatest Hits".

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    MS-DOS Kermit
	Columbia University
	kermit@kermitproject.org
	Updated: 9 September 2020
